In this video we're going to fix a couple of somewhat obscure bugs without animation and also have a
quick conversation about bugs themselves.
In this video we're gonna have a look at something we have implemented but has caused an issue and that
is known as a bug.
So if you're not familiar with the term a bug is when the game doesn't work as intended.
That's a bug.
And just quickly I want to share with you my philosophy here on when to fix different types of bugs
because they can really distract you from what you need to do on your project.
If you find a game breaking bugs that stops something from working the game just crashes then drop everything
and fix that immediately.
Make sure you fix that straightaway or else you won't be out to properly implement your new code.
You might be out of place for your game you might be out to share it with other people.
If it's something that's annoying in other words the player will be distracted as we've talked about
then fix it before moving on to the next feature.
That's where we're at right at the moment.
I've got one thing that I think we really need to fix before we move on.
If it's something that looks bad.
So the play on notice like a little bit of a glitch like the players clipping through some collision
incorrectly or something.
Some of the trees don't quite look right.
Then fix it if you get time fix it after you've implemented all of your other features and then come
back to it.
If and when you get time.
These are things that often you just don't get done that you need to live with that need to be loud.
That's cool.
And then things that could be improved the player may or may not know about them you look at and say
ah you know I could really have it.
So when you swing it smacks into the player and there's a bigger particle effect in that moment.
Well that's not about my friend.
You just need to add it to your published list for the end of the project.
And if you get to it you get to it.
That's cool.
So here's the problem I'm seeing at the moment when I ran up to him enemy punch and then run away and
then come back and hit again.
He does this little glitch.
It's as if he's starting the attack but it's not quite working so I'll show you that again.
Run up and did the glitch straight away.
Well done.
Run up and glitch as well so that's the issue.
And often if someone finds a bug in your game they'll say Hey man your character glitches out when you
go to hit you like oh what do I do about this how do we even find what it is.
Well let me give you a little process for fixing bugs.
The first step is you have to be really clear on the reproduction step.
So we say the reproduced steps.
How do you go about getting that bug.
What are the conditions so for me.
I ran up and clicked and then I clicked away and he does a little glitch.
When you run up and attack the enemy again just an extra note I find it's easier to reproduce if you
put the player's time between attacks up to say something like 4 or 5 and wait until he's finished his
attack and then walk away.
So be clear on the repo steps and next you want to follow your codes logic step by step and ask at each
step what exactly is this step doing so what.
In my code is making me click and attack.
What is changing my attack state.
What is transitioning out of it.
So looking at all those different aspects along this pipeline and looking for something that's doing
the wrong thing something that's doing additional things or something that's not actually doing the
thing you think that it is doing and then also the code make some changes.
This is what I think will fix it make a fix.
In other words and then test the repo steps so the things that we know produce the bug in the first
place but also this is really important.
Test your general gameplay so play the game a little bit to make sure you haven't introduced any other
issues in there.
So what I'm going to do is give you a challenge here to find the problem and this would be good.
If you have the same code base as Sam and I at the moment not so good if you've gone off made a bunch
of changes but if you're working in pretty much the same as what we're working in then follow the repo
steps that I've just given you and with our bug to see if you can identify what's causing the bug so
try to figure it out.
This is not a go fix it challenge you can if you want to but I want to just see if you can figure out
what is causing this bug and then please share your answer in our discussion section and of course make
sure you don't accidentally look at other people's answers just put what you think it is.
Give it your best shot.
This is a really this is core to being a great game developer is being out to figure out why the heck
with my code work so there's the challenge find the problem and I'll see you back here when you've given
it a shot.
Okay.
How'd you go on with that.
Did you figure out what's going on.
What I've found is the easiest way to figure this out is if I click on player and change the time between
attacks or something pretty high I will say 4 that's making it a lot clearer.
The fact that we have transitions in and out of attack into locomotion.
So let me show you what I discovered when I just give ourselves a little bit more time between attacks
when I run up.
So I'm currently in locomotion just doing my idle idle idle run up in attack.
It plays the attack and then when I move out of the way after the attack while he was standing in locomotion
my stop attack trigger has been triggered but not consume.
Now when I run up and click on him again the first thing that happens is it gets consumed and then he
does his attack.
I say that one more time.
So it happened again just then I was standing in locomotion my stop attack trigger is turn on if I click
it I'll turn off the stop attack trigger.
So the first thing will happen I'll punch him and now I'm in locomotion.
If I move out of the way the stop attack trigger is on when it shouldn't be on because I've moved I've
already stopped.
So if we remind ourselves of what's going on in our action scheduler if we are currently in combat.
So the action is combat and fighting and we cancel that so that we can go into movement.
We call current action not cancel which is going to be the cancel we find in fighter dot c s and you
can see in here we are setting the trigger of stop attack.
However this is a really interesting quirk is because our animator wasn't in attack in the attack state
that is where we have the transition as one transition of just if you finish your attack has exit time
that means you finish your attack then just go wait in locomotion until we think you supposed to attack
again the other transition here is the one that has the stop attack condition so that condition is being
triggered when we call cancel.
However because I've moved away from attack so I'm going to hit him once.
Now I'm going to hit come on it.
There we go.
What's wrong.
Okay hit this guy.
Wait wait wait wait hit.
And now I move away.
See how I'm not actually in attack.
So my stop attack trigger wasn't consumed and I'm back in locomotion and it will be consumed the next
time I'm back in attack.
So these triggers are really interesting they're like a bull that gets flicked on and off and it's gonna
get flicked off immediately.
Once it is consumed by our condition over here.
So the very second I run back up and get back into the attack state again.
There is a transition that says okay if this trigger is called then cancel attack which you just did
it moved out.
So how do we fix this.
Well the issue is if we have our stop attack trigger that sitting there waiting to be consumed then
the moment we run up and do our attack let's consume it let's automatically consume it.
We can do that by calling reset trigger that's equivalent set Trigger clicks it on reset trigger it
turns it off so it's fine we we'll do that now code over in fighter dot yes I'll look for the moment
that we're triggering attack we want to go straight into attack and I'll put a line before that actually
I'll copy this whole line of set trigger attack.
Copy that.
Put it just above and we want to change from set trigger.
We want change that's a reset trigger and instead of attack where resetting the trigger of stop attack.
Okay now I'm going to highlight these two lines.
Click on the little light bulb just to extract these out as a method double click on this method F2
will call this trigger attack
and then trigger attack is looking all cool.
And you know what.
I don't think it's going to happen very often but let's make sure we're protecting ourself the other
way around.
So when we stop attack let's make sure that we reset the attack so that that doesn't happen.
So this little mini challenge for you is to do the same thing that I did above.
But the other way round so that we're resetting attack OK.
Little that was a mini challenge.
So what I'll do is highlight this line.
Copy and paste.
We will reset tree of attack small A.
And once again I'll just extract these out into a method just to keep it tidy.
Click on the light bulb extract method double click new method if Two and this will be stop attack as
the method.
Is looking pretty good let's save that up make sure it's doing what we expect it to do yet we can move
around a little bit.
All good run up and hit a guy bonk punched him walk away a little bit.
OK.
Our stop attack trigger is still sitting there not being consumed.
But when I run up and hit him again bonk straight away because we've reset that trigger.
Excellent.
We have fixed that bug and you know I've got one more little bug that our wonderful behind the scenes
team member Mark has mentioned that when we are calling in one of our animations or went in when we're
hitting.
We've got our hit event which is calling our hit method that we've created.
There's times where that doesn't quite work out.
Maybe if you exit the animation a little bit before the hit event or the character runs away or dies
there's there's issues that we might get with that at some point.
So let's fix that now.
It's a pretty simple thing we just need to make sure that we actually do have a target.
So if we find hit and here how do we prevent ourselves having a null reference exception if it can't
find a target.
Well we add If Target equals equals no.
Then what do we do.
Well we return okay.
Just a side note and here you don't have to put in these curly braces there.
It's an optional kind of thing.
I know that Sam tends not to.
He does it like this.
That's exactly the same.
It's just a habit that I've developed from.
Thank you Ben Tristram for saying that we should always have our curly braces because if we go and create
a second line and we've forgotten to putting our curly braces then the moment we do this we're gonna
have issues happen because it's not knowing what's going on.
So it's up to you.
Kelly braces or not.
I just wanted to point that out because I know some people ask why is Rick doing Colleen Kelly braces
when he doesn't have to do it.
Just a preference of mine to do that in their OK.
Save that up.
We're not going to see the impact of that bug because we didn't go through the repo steps as a little
bit more obscure or a little bit harder to replicate.
But we have prevented a bug in the future which is the best kind of bug of all.
So great work in this video.
Well done for fixing bugs it's not the sexiest of topics but it's a really important skill for you to
have to quickly find and eradicate bugs.
And I'll see you in an upcoming video.